she sold a digital diet book and she
convinced herself that she wasn't just
saving the planet she convinced herself
that she and her boyfriend were the most
effective vegan activists in the world
okay let me tell you something in
politics it may be hard to tell what a
difference somebody makes on the way in
it's hard to tell at the beginning but
it's real easy to tell on the way out
babe I'm sorry freely it's it's real
easy to tell freely if you were the most
effective vegan activist in the world
why did it make a goddamn bit of
difference when you quit if you really
were the most effective vegan activists
in the world one how could you quit too
after you quit why did it make a goddamn
that a difference why couldn't we all
see the change
why couldn't we all look around at what
the vegan movement had become without
you and say wow it sure was different
things sure were different around here
when Frehley was in charge things sure
were different we have freelee's
leadership think sure we're different we
had free leaf activism freely I'm here
to burry you I was having a conversation
with my girlfriend just a couple days
ago and you know I'm very self-critical
you might not know that about me you
might not have ever watched a video of
my channel in which I'm criticizing
myself but I do all the time I really
view many of my own aspirations in life
as a failure as a succession of failures
I've learned a lot from those failures I
learned a lot from every single one of
them but a failure remains a failure and
I don't delude myself about it I said to
my girlfriend the other day you know
it's this long series of unfortunate
events there's a long series of failures
that led me to really commit my time to
veganism as a cause as my primary cause
it's very very easy for me to imagine a
parallel world in which the main thing I
was working on was First Nations people
First Nations education First Nations
language so creative way Mohawk you name
it
and I was the guy who worked on First
Nations who just happened to be vegan
and it's also addressed because it
leaves you ask yourself what does it
mean to succeed in veganism and animal
rights right in some ways it's a cause
the enormity of the task we're taking on
the the just sheer scale of the cultural
change and the political change we're
trying to go so enormous and we although
it's going to go on for three hundred
years five hundred years we haven't as a
society we haven't even quit smoking yet
we haven't abolished nicotine we haven't
abolished cigarettes how long is it
going to take to abolish leather
centuries man centuries we're just at
the beginning of this struggle that's so
huge it can make you feel tiny can make
you feel hopeless it can make you feel
like your efforts come any difference
what does it mean to succeed and what
does it mean to be a fairer but I said
to my girlfriend the other day just a
couple days ago I said to her you know
if I had stuck with any of those other
any of those other projects
if they hadn't failed I actually think
my life would be relatively meaningless
and I would probably have some YouTube
channel well I was talking about
Cambodian politics for example but where
the reality is no matter how expert I
might become no matter how many years of
my life I might devote to being engaged
with and following what's going on in
Cambodian both I can never make a
difference I can never win I can only
sit there is no cider making sarcastic
remarks making snarky remarks on YouTube
and she laughed and she smiled and she
looked at me and she said don't you
realize that's exactly what you're doing
within veganism you're just on your
youtube making sarcastic remarks making
snarky remark about the flurgle movement
and no I smiled also it was funny I
probably laughed a little bit but I
looked at other I said no I don't feel
that way about it at all for me it's
it's a contrast I don't think they're
comfortable at all
I think if I was broadcasting here on
YouTube about Cambodian politics that
would be hopeless and fruitless and
couldn't make a difference and I could
only kind of preach the converted I said
to her no sincerely I have the delusion
that I'm trying to save the world I
really I really feel like I'm trying to
build a better future for this movement
I really feel like in my tiny way you
know I'm making the world a better place
I really feel like I am pitching in to
save the planet and I know it's a
delusion I'm certain disability and I
can laugh about it I mean I could joke
around my girlfriend don't worry don't
worry it's you know it's not that bad
but look that freelee the banana girl
Freelander banana girl made a small
fortune selling you a diet book and she
didn't even print it on paper she just
charged you money to tell you to send
you a PDF over the Internet okay she
sold a digital diet book and she
convinced herself that she wasn't just
saving the planet she convinced herself
that she and her boyfriend were the most
effective vegan activists in the world
okay let me tell you something in
politics it may be hard to tell what a
difference somebody makes on the way in
it's hard to tell at the beginning but
it's real easy to tell on the way out
babe I'm sorry freely it's it's real
easy to tell freely if you were the most
effective vegan activist in the world
why did it make a goddamn bit of
difference when you quit use one example
from real politics in one example from
from fiction
Joanne Lai the the Chinese politician it
was really in charge of foreign policy
international relations when Joe and Lai
died at his funeral
the weeping if you see photographs or
film unbelievable the outpouring of
emotion emotion including fear fear
what's going to happen next in line
is dead I just went through agent
thinking of it they have a memorial here
I'm endo Hong China I'm Way out on the
border with Myanmar I'm in the most
remote you know barbarian fringes of
China historically and culturally this
is that's how they imagine this place
and they have a huge monument here to
the life and death of this politician
Joe in line when Joanne Lai died his
absence was felt his absence changed the
country and changed the world freely you
said you were in it for the future of
the movement you said you were in it for
the animals you said you weren't to
change the world and you quit for no
good reason
what what compels you to quit freely
what compelled you to transform your
YouTube channel into a minimalist
channel what what is that stuff really
this if you really were the most
effective vegan activists in the world
one
how could you quit - after you quit why
did it make a goddamn bit of difference
why couldn't we all see the change
why couldn't we all look around at what
the vegan movement had become without
you and say wow it sure was different
things sure weren't different around
here when freely was in charge things
sure we're different we have freelee's
leadership think sure we're different we
had free leave activism yeah I am NOT
going to say that freelee and
durianrider did it
zero activism I give them more credit I
think they did more than zero I think
they did some I think they did a little
bit and I think they did a lot more harm
than they did it good you know what
freely I gave you more credit than I
should I give you credit for inventing
this whole game you were one of the
first people on the scene you at least
reinvented it you've invented new roles
you raised it to a new level in so many
ways but when you left the game we
nobody even noticed you leaving you used
to boast that you were the most
effective
activists in the world and when you went
out the door there were just crickets
and smirks laughter all the things you
used to boast about but you would
accomplish a huge difference you made in
the world where's your boasting now what
are you but another dried-up bimbo
another aging wannabe starlet another
scrawny old woman with a dishonest diet
book and a pair of fake tests another
woman who never had the talent to be an
actress never had the voice to be a
singer never really danced a woman who
left from one full-fat ideology to the
next just to see which one could make
them any money freely I remember when
you used to come on camera and sincerely
preach that you didn't use soap and you
didn't use shampoo I remember when you
used to preach that you didn't believe
in modern medicine but I guess those
just weren't making enough money for you
so you kept changing hats you kept
switching beliefs switching ideologies
you went back to using shampoo I guess
just because that would make more money
for you right and when you quit the game
did anyone even notice that you were
gone say this again guys I really think
passionately about the future of this
movement
somebody has to and every day I get on
skype and I check my email and I come on
YouTube and I reach out to people
livestream on you now I'm asking myself
somebody sincerely has to be working for
the future of veganism as a movement is
it you